well the writings been on the wall for a
while with fresh and easy and I think
there's a few things here first of all
the stores are very clinical they're
very small they're very automated and I
think you know Tesco try to enter the
u.s. and revolutionize the way that
Americans shop but they just really
failed to grasp it so I think another
issue really is the fact that they set
up the infrastructure to service
thousands of these stores but at the
moment they're still limited to just a
few hundred
so these stores are operating with quite
a lot of overhead and it's it's very
difficult for them to turn a profit and
so that's why after five years the
stores are still hemorrhaging money and
you know the u.s. is an extremely
competitive market there's some very
strong established players there and
unfortunately I think today's news
indicates that Tesco will inevitably
exit the market and you know they're not
the only ones that have done it M&S and
Sainsbury's have tried to crack the US
but they've had to exit as well so I
think that's what we'll see I mentioned
there the pressure on Philip Clark the
chief executive in a sense though this
fresh and easy thing was the brainchild
of of his predecessor Terry lady yes
that's right and again I think that
fresh and easy was it was an innovative
idea and it certainly sparked a lot of
reaction in the u.s. so if you look at
some of the big competitors like Walmart
they're now launching a chain of smaller
stores and I think they have identified
a gap in the market but they've just
really failed to deliver on it and you
know the news that tim mason the CEO of
fresh news he is now leaving the
business is also quite significant
because he's he was also the deputy CEO
of the entire group and a clear
front-runner for Phillips Clark Philip
Clark's job when the time comes for him
to move on so I think that the major
implication here is that now there's no
real line of succession in place
particularly now that Richard brazier
who is heading the UK business has also
left look just tell us then a bit about
how you analyze the position of Tesco as
it stands at the moment it still feels
it doesn't quite have that panache that
it did a few years ago yeah that's right
I think they've sort of lost their way
they've become a little bit complacent
in the UK which let's not forget is the
cash cow market you know the UK accounts
for two-thirds of group profits
if the UK is not performing as it should
be well that puts a lot of pressure on
international operations and if you look
internationally they have actually
reported declines and like-for-like
sales in eight of their 12 markets so
you can see why there's a lot of
pressure on Philip Clark to exit those
markets where there's no clear sign of
improvements of turning a profit they
recently exited their Japanese business
and I think going forward you know
Tesco's never really been a flag planter
but the focus will very much be on
fixing the UK improving the quality of
its products improving the ranging fit
updating their stores which they are
making progress on and really turning
around its domestic market before it
looks overseas